Data from https://voteview.com/data

I did a PCA on the vote dataset and the first PC is a perfect analog for party, which is interesting because party doesn't necessarily match perfectly with or voting (although it matches more now than it used to). The second one is a bit more peculiar because the highest numbers _and_ the lowest numbers are all Republicans. All the middle numbers are Democrats. I don't thoroughly know what it means. Big numbers seem to be people like Thomas Massie (Tea Party libertarian) and MTG. Low numbers seem to be Republicans who won in competitive districts, and many of them are described by Wikipedia as "moderate". But what of the middle numbers? I wonder who the Democrat with the largest absolute value of PC2 is. Hmm. Appears to be a certain David Cicciline. Unclear what makes him special. He seems to be called "populist-leaning" by some people. Is that what it means? He's got a pretty big number for PC2. Who's the most PC2 Republican? Andrew Biggs. Who's that? Well Thomas Massie is not far behind, which makes me think that it's not exactly populism that we're describing here. Who's the least PC2 Democrat and Republican? Thomas Kean, whom people call centrist and is part of a dynasty, and Mike Lawler, who is anti-congestion pricing, for example, but also anti-abortion ban (although so is Dahneld on some days). For Democrats, Don Davis (voted no for Medicare drug negotiation and wrote an editorial in favor of unlimited money for Israel) and old pro-life Henry Cuellar.
It seems like all the extremes of PC2 are known to buck their party, but the exact nature of that party-bucking is hard to put my finger on.
Who's Brian Fitzpatrick? He's one of the 6 people in the whole chamber with |PC1| < 3, but he has a huge -7 for PC2, which is quite high. He's a Republican who voted with Joe Biden an incredible 76% of the time, along with being the most environmentally-friendly Republican (more so than 3 Democrats, according to Wikipedia). Interesting. What do the other people with similar PC2 scores look like? All Republicans, all with much higher PC1 scores (7-10, compared to 2). Nobody I know though. What are they up to? Well Hal Rogers has been called out by name by both National Review and Rolling Stone. No mean feat. Wikipedia claims he's "staunchly conservative" but a bipartisan dealmaker. Huh. What about the others? Mike Turner talks like something of a Trump-aligned attack dog, but he voted for the federal same-sex marriage act in 2022, and he had no interest in the 2020 election shenanigans. Interesting. Also has a looong section about corruption scandals. Hmm. What about Andrew Garbarino or Anthony D'Esposito? I keep seeing them in these lists. 
